Updating Customer Risk (#595)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/customer-success/README.md

Risk is the chance or probability that a customer will not renew their existing Enterprise license. The Customer Success team categorizes risk into two buckets:

> * **At-Risk:** Customer has actively told Mattermost there is a high probability of non-renewal.

Reviewer: Given that At-Risk is re-defined below, does it make sense to remove this line?

* **Early Warning:** 

>    **“Early Warning” Definition:** Customer who a) has risk of 10%+ contraction (including full churn) upon renewal and at least 3 months to correct the situation, b) has                                        less than 75% of paid licenses deployed 90 days from license purchase, or c) is unresponsive more than 120 days from renewal date. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**“Early Warning” Definition:** Customer that meets one or more of the following criteria: 
a) has risk of 10%+ contraction (including full churn) upon renewal and at least 3 months to correct the situation; 
b) has less than 75% of paid licenses deployed 90 days from license purchase; or,
c) is unresponsive more than 120 days from the renewal date. 
```

Author: @cwarnermm I agree to this change 👍

>                      **Examples:** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Examples:** 
```

Reviewer: I've made an assumption here (and in subsequent review edits) that the extra space present is not intended or desired. Please feel free to ignore these suggested updates if my assumption is incorrect.

Author: @cwarnermm Agree to all these changes :)

>                       - “We can’t get a hold of this customer and they purchased 2 months ago.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- “We can’t get a hold of this customer and they purchased 2 months ago.”
```

>                       - “We are struggling to deploy our Mattermost instance.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- “We are struggling to deploy our Mattermost instance.”
```

>                       - “We purchased 500 licenses but we have 36 active users.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- “We purchased 500 licenses but we have 36 active users.”
```

>                        Customers are downgrading their subscription but renewing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers are downgrading their subscription but renewing.
```

>     **“At Risk” Definition:** Customer who a) has a clear risk of 10%+ contraction (including full churn) upon renewal and less than 3 month to correct the situation or b)                                 has communicated that they will not renew. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**“At-Risk” Definition:** Customer that meets one or more of the following criteria:
a) has a clear risk of 10%+ contraction (including full churn) upon renewal and less than 3 month to correct the situation; or,
b) has communicated that they will not renew their subscription. 
```

>                      **Examples:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Examples:**
```

>                      - The customer is unresponsive and we are within the 90 renewal period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "The customer is unresponsive and they are within the 90 renewal period."
```

>                      - Customer states: “We aren’t renewing our subscription if you don't do X.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customer states: “We aren’t renewing our subscription if you don't do X.
```

#### Bi-weekly Customer Risk Meetings (Interal)

> **Purpose:** Bi-Monthly forecast call to review Early Warning, At-Risk and Churn customers and align company efforts on retaining customers and minimizing churn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Purpose:** Bi-Monthly forecast call to review Early Warning, At-Risk, and Churn customers, and to align company efforts on retaining customers and minimizing churn.
```

> **Who Owns the Meeting?** This meeting is coordinated and led by the (CAM) Customer Advocacy Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Who Owns the Meeting?** This meeting is coordinated and led by the (CAM) Customer Advocacy Manager.
```

**Meeting Frequency:** We will meet biweekly on Mondays. This is a mandatory meeting. 
**Duration of Meeting:** 50 Minutes

> **Meeting Etiquette:** Mattermost is a “Customer Obsessed” organization. We ask to please be mindful that we are all driving to one common objective. Successful and happy customers. Be blameless. Please avoid finger pointing and keep a positive voice tone while working with the team. We ask that only one person speak at a time to avoid confusion and so everyone can add insight to help with the resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Meeting Etiquette:** Mattermost is a customer-obsessed organization. We are all driving towards one common objective: successful and happy customers. Please be blameless, avoid finger pointing, and keep a positive voice and tone while working with the team. Try to ensure that only one person speaks at a time to avoid confusion so everyone can add insight to help with the resolution.
```

**Who Should Attend:** 
 - Members of the MLT Team
 - Head of Sales

>  - Customer Success Managers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Customer Success Managers (CSMs)
```

>  - Customer Success Engineering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Customer Success Engineering (CSE) Team Members
```

>  - Account Executives (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Account Executives (AE) (Optional)
```

 
**Meeting Strategy:**

> Ahead of meeting, CSMs or AEs CSM/AE escalates a technical or business issue by logging or updating a “Early Warning/At Risk” in Salesforce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ahead of meeting, CSMs, AEs, or CSM/AE escalates a technical or business issue by logging or updating an “Early Warning/At-Risk” in Salesforce.
```

Reviewer: Question: does someone log or update an early warning/at-risk [something]? Once an early warning or at-risk is logged, what is that object called in Salesforce? It may help to clarify the statement: "...escalates a technical or business issue by logging or updating an "Early Warning/At-Risk" [thing] in Salesforce.

> Early Warning/At Risk Areas to be logged in Salesforce and reviewed in Looker report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Early Warning/At-Risk Areas to be logged in Salesforce and reviewed in Looker reports.
```

> #### Customer Risk Object (SFDC)

Reviewer: Question: What does SFDC stand for? It doesn't appear to be referenced in this section, but appears in the title.

> The Customer Risk object in Salesforce was created to track At-Risk and Early Warning customers. Managing customer risk in Salesforce allows for better visibility among departments at Mattermost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Customer Risk object in Salesforce was created to track Early Warning and At-Risk customers. Managing customer risk in Salesforce allows for better visibility among departments at Mattermost.
```

> To log Customer Risk in Salesforce you can watch the [Creating Customer Risk video](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1_nbZhAirM2-4q4oFdygSgmS1H_pAn5qm) or follow the step-by-step instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log Customer Risk in Salesforce you can watch this [Creating Customer Risk video](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1_nbZhAirM2-4q4oFdygSgmS1H_pAn5qm), or follow the step-by-step instructions below.
```

#### Instructions for Logging in Salesforce
**Salesforce Account Layout Customer Risk Button**
1. Log into your Salesforce account.

> 2. Type the Account Name in the search bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Type the **Account Name** in the **Search** bar.
```

> 3. Select "Log Customer Risk" button 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Log Customer Risk**. 
```

> 4. The quick form appears in a small pop-out window. You don't need to fill out all fields. Below are the fields you need to fill out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The quick form displays in a small pop-out window. You don't need to fill out all fields. The fields you need to fill out are listed below:
```

>    - **Key Contact:** Who is the main contact at the account. list defaults to only contacts tied to the account you are logging the risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Key Contact:** The main contact at the account. The list defaults to only the contacts tied to the account you are logging the risk against.
```

Reviewer: I've proposed a change to the way we're defining the purpose and/or scope of a given field. My suggestions are in definition format rather than question format. Please feel free to dismiss if this approach isn't suitable. If it is suitable, consider updating the remaining content on this page to match for consistency.

>    - **Status:** Choose if the customer is **At-Risk** or **Early Warning**. Note: **Churned** and **Renewed** fields will be used later based on the renewal outcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Status:** Specify whether the customer is **At-Risk** or **Early Warning**. Note: The **Churned** and **Renewed** fields will be used later based on the renewal outcome.
```

>    - **# of Seats At-Risk:** How many seats could be potentially non-renewed. Seat number could be all of the seats available for renewal or a portion of the seats available for renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **# of Seats At-Risk:** The number of seats that could potentially be non-renewed. Seat number could be all of the seats available for renewal or a portion of the seats available for renewal.
```

>    - **Risk Amount:** What is the amount of ARR that could be potentially non-renewed. Risk amount could be all ARR available for renewal or a portion of the ARR available for renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Risk Amount:** The amount of ARR that could be potentially non-renewed. Risk amount could be all ARR available for renewal or a portion of the ARR available for renewal.
```

>    - **Engagement:** Current interaction between the customer and Mattermost. For example: Is there a call scheduled, is the customer unresponsive, have you reached out to the customer, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Engagement:** Current interaction status between the customer and Mattermost. For example: call scheduled, customer is unresponsive, or reached out to customer. 
```

>    - **Competitor:** Who is the competitor the customer is evaluating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Competitor:** The competitor the customer is evaluating.
```

>    - **Reason:** What is the reason the customer is considering non-renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Reason:** The reason the customer is considering non-renewal.
```

>    - **Summary:** Description of why the customer is being flagged as an At-Risk or Early Warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Summary:** Description of why the customer is being flagged as an At-Risk or Early Warning.
```

>    - **Next Step:** What is the next action item with the customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Next Step:** The next action item with the customer.
```

>  Note: System automatically fills out the following fields that live on the risk object but are not in the risk form when selecting the button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Salesforce automatically fills out the following fields that are saved as part of the risk object but are not visible in the risk form when selecting **Log Customer Risk**.
```

>    - **Contraction:** Formula to see if number of seats at risk is less than number of seats licensed.  If so, the risk is flagged "yes" for contraction risk. If seats and risk and seats licensed are equal the risk is flagged "no" for contraction risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Contraction:** A calculation determines whether the number of seats at risk is less than number of seats licensed. When fewer seats are at risk than licensed seats, contraction risk  is "yes". When equal seats are at risk, contraction risk is "no".
```

Reviewer: @emilyhollinger - While I've attempted a re-write for clarity, I'm not convinced I fully understand the working definition of "contraction" in this context. Based on the original text, if the number of seats at risk is less than seats licensed, the risk is flagged "yes". That feels almost contradictory to what I'd expect (though I'm not familiar with this Salesforce functionality/UX). If the ratio of risk to seats is less than licenses, logically, wouldn't a "Contraction" field indicate no in such a case? Or is this Salesforce field truly indicative of the opposite?

>    - **Customer Risk Name:** Customer name + Primary risk reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Customer Risk Name:** Customer name and primary risk reason.
```

 **Salesforce Opportunity Layout Customer Risk Form** 
1. Log into your Salesforce account.

> 2. Type the Account Name in the search bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Type the **Account Name** in the **Search** bar.
```

> 3. Select "Opportunity" that is at Risk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the opportunity that is At-Risk.
```

> 4. This takes you to the opportunity where the quick form appears directly on the layout. Below are the fields you need to fill out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. This takes you to the opportunity where the quick form appears directly on the layout. The fields you need to fill out are listed below:
```

>    - **Key Contact:** Who is the main contact at the account. list defaults to only contacts tied to the account you are logging the risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Key Contact:** The main contact at the account. The list defaults to only the contacts tied to the account you are logging the risk against.
```

>    - **Status:** Choose if the customer is **At-Risk** or **Early Warning**. Note: **Churned** and **Renewed** fields will be used later based on the renewal outcome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Status:** Specify whether the customer is **At-Risk** or **Early Warning**. Note: The **Churned** and **Renewed** fields will be used later based on the renewal outcome.
```

>    - **# of Seats At-Risk:** How many seats could be potentially non-renewed. Seat number could be all of the seats available for renewal or a portion of the seats available for renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **# of Seats At-Risk:** The number of seats that could potentially be non-renewed. Seat number could be all of the seats available for renewal or a portion of the seats available for renewal.
```

>    - **Risk Amount:** What is the amount of ARR that could be potentially non-renewed. Risk amount could be all ARR available for renewal or a portion of the ARR available for renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Risk Amount:** The amount of ARR that could be potentially non-renewed. Risk amount could be all ARR available for renewal or a portion of the ARR available for renewal.
```

>    - **Reason:** What is the reason the customer is considering non-renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Reason:** The reason the customer is considering non-renewal.
```

   - **Summary:** Description of why the customer is being flagged as an At-Risk or Early Warning.

>    - **Next Step:** What is the next action item with the customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Next Step:** The next action item with the customer.
```

 Note: System automatically fills out the following fields that live on the risk object but are not in the risk form when selecting the button.

>    - **Contraction:** Formula to see if number of seats at risk is less than number of seats licensed.  If so, the risk is flagged "yes" for contraction risk. If seats and risk and seats licensed are equal the risk is flagged "no" for contraction risk.

Reviewer: See same question above.

>    - **Customer Risk Name:** Customer name + Primary risk reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Customer Risk Name:** Customer name and Primary risk reason.
```
